# ASSESSMENT 5: Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.

1. What is a block in Ruby?

Your answer: A Ruby block is an area of where the developer can code in the logic of a method. An example is a simple `.each` method, if doing a one-liner, one would open and close the block with `{}` and if it code spans multiple lines, one would instead use `do...end` to surround the block.

Researched answer: A Ruby block is an anonymous function that can be passed into a method.

2. What is a gem?

Your answer: A gem is a library or extension of the Ruby language. They are open source and easily installed by using `$ gem install <gem_name>` in the terminal. Official gems are reviewed by the Ruby community and made available everyone. Popular gems include Rails and Rspec which are used in web development and testing, respectively.

Researched answer: Gems are used to extend or modify functionality in Ruby applications. Each gem has name, version, and platform. Rubygems.org looks to be the prime website for looking for ducumentation for Ruby gems.

3. What is Ruby on Rails?

Your answer: Ruby on Rails is a full stack web framework using the Model View Controller web development paradigm. Rails automates a lot of the set up process for developers so they can concentrate on the important decisions and not worry about things like folder structures. It is used by a lot of websites like GitHub and Shopify and one of the main advantages is that rails can spin up a working website extremely quickly. Though it is a full stack framework, it is arguably easier to use it in conjection with a front end focused framework such as React for DOM manipulation. Ruby is the core language of Rails hence why it is called Ruby on Rails.

Researched answer: Ruby on Rails is a server-side web application framework written in Ruby created by David Heinemeier Hansson (DHH) first debuting in 2004. Currently it is on version 7.0.1, released on January 6, 2022.

4. What is a relational database? Are there other kinds of databases?

Your answer: A relational database means the structure of the data is modeled in a column/row fashion. PostgreSQL is a database application that manages relational data. There are definetly other kinds of databases out there, however at this time, I only have experience with relational database.

Researched answer: A relational database stores data in tables and rows also known as records. Popular platforms includde MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQlite. A relational database works by linking information from multiple tables through unique identifiers known as keys. Another kind of database is the non-relational database, or NoSQL database. In this model, there are no tables, rows, or keys, but instead uses a storage modeal optimized for specific requirements of the type of data being stored. Popular NoSQL databases include MongoDB, Apache Cassandra, and Redis.

5. What are primary keys? Why are they important?

Your answer: Primary keys are the unique identifiers of data in a relational database. Each piece of data has it's own key so when called upon, it would return only one single object.

Researched answer: Databases use primary keys to compare, sort, store records, and create relationships betweek records. Primary keys can be automatically generated by accession or given such as a social security number.

## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week

Research and define the following terms to the best of your ability.

1. RESTful routes: In Rails, a RESTful route is the mapping between HTTP verbs (GET, POST, etc), controller actions, and CRUD operations in a database. REST stands for representational state transfer.

2. JSON:JavaScript Object Notation or JSON is a format for storing and transporting data. It is often used when data is sent from a server to a web page. JSON is also "self-describing" and should be easy to understand.

3. ERB: Embedded Ruby or ERB is a feature of Ruby that allow you to generate text from templates. ERB templates combine plain text with Ruby code to utilize variable substitution and flow control.

4. Params: In Rails, params refers to parameters being passed to the controller through a GET or POST request. In a GET request, the params get passed from the URL from the user's browser.

5. API: Application Programming Interface or API is the software intermediary that allows two different applications to communicate with one another. Modern APIs adhere to standards like HTTP or REST that are developer-friendly and easily undersetood.
